One, two, three
[...] We see this in Chinese companies such as Xiaomi, OnePlus or Gionee, and also in local companies around the world that are having their phones made in China and basing their business onbranding and distribution - some examples areMicromax in India, Cherry in the Philippines, Blu in Latin America or Wikoin France,which claims over 10% market share. Equally importantly, it's far from clear how global these companies will be, but that may not matter.In this environment, just as in the PC business,some companies and some business models do better than others, but that doesn't necessarily matter to anyone else further up the stack.Gateway 2000 disappearedand Dell prospered, but that didn't much matter to PC buyers, let alone software developers or anyone on the web.Equally, Samsung roseto dominance and nowslips, Lenovo buys Motorola and invests in mobile,HTC falteredandSony goes sideways and Chinese OEMs are rising,but the phones keep coming. When Istarted going to this conference, in 2000, operators and handset makers drove the agenda for the whole consumer experience and the show was the place to see that, but today that agenda is driven at Google IO, Apple's WWDCand, perhaps, Facebook's F8. Xiaomi sold 75m phones last year, yes, but isn't itjust another OEM with a new branding and distribution model, and its rise relative to Samsung, say,no more interesting to anyone not inthe handset business than the rise of Dellrelative to IBM's PC divisionwas? And it's mostly in China, for now - isn't itjust one 'barbarian' defeating another in a far away place?Well, up to a point. [...] They're nice-looking, interesting, andhalf the price. The difference is that unlike most previous OEM attempts at software,they are not trying to compete with the whole internet. [...] You can sometimes see where it came from, but it's not the same, nor is it trying to be. The result of this is that we now appear to have at least a couple ofChinese companies doing what was supposed not to be possible - low-margin companies using commodity components and a commodity OS, yet achieving differentiation in design, software and services. [...] Smaller OEMs are less powerful than Samsung as a counterpart to Google, but also harder collectively to impose upon - Google can't shout at them all.